---
layout: page
title: Michele Simionato
---

![](/images/myself.jpg)

Starting from October 2012 I have been an employee of
[GEM](http://www.globalquakemodel.org/), a non-profit company
specialized on earthquakes and seismic risk assessment. I am now the
maintainer of the Openquake Engine and since March 2014
I have been working full time on it.

Before that I had a long and variegated professional history.

I started out as a Theoretical Physicist, with a master degree from
Padua University, with a specialization in Astrophysics and
Cosmology. At the time I was working mostly on supergravity theories,
differential geometry and symmetries in Quantum Field Theories. Then I
got a Ph. D. about the Renormalization of Quantum Field Theory from
the University of Parma. At that point I moved on to Paris where I
spent three years and a half working on both Equilibrium and Out of
Equilibrium Quantum Field Theory. Later, I moved again, this time to
the United States, and I spent a couple of years at the University of
Pittsburgh, as a research associate, with some dabbling also in the
Early Universe Cosmology. At that time I decided that it was time for
a more radical change, so I quit Physics and moved to software development.

I rapidly became an expert on Python and I started writing papers on
it, especially the famous ones about [metaclasses]
(http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-pymeta/index.html)
(published by IBMDeveloperWorks) and the [method resolution
order](https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.3/mro/) (published
by Guido Van Rossum himself on the Python site). I went back to Italy
and for a couple of years I worked as an independent Python
consultant. I also spent some time working with Plone and several Web
technologies. I have become one of the founders of the Italian Python
Association. I was finally hired by a financial firm in Milan and
spent 7 years working with databases and web applications in the field
of financial risk assessment. In 2008 I went back to write technical
articles, first for the Italian web fanzine
[Stacktrace](http://stacktrace.it) and then for [my blog]
(http://www.artima.com/weblogs/index.jsp?blogger=micheles) where I wrote
the infamous [Adventures of a Pythonista in Schemeland](http://www.artima.com/weblogs/viewpost.jsp?thread=251474).

PS: usually I do not dress up as nicely as in the picture!
